README.md, before:

# A.W.A.R.E. Water Management System

**Agent for Water Autonomy, Resilience & Efficiency**

A proactive, self-healing AI agent for municipal water utilities that couples a digital twin with multi-agent decision systems to anticipate failures, orchestrate autonomous responses, and optimize energy use.

## Team

- **Raymond Li** - raymond.li@sjsu.edu
- **Sophia Atendido** - sophia.atendido@sjsu.edu
- **Jack Liang** - jack.liang@sjsu.edu
- **Dhruv Verma** - dhruv.verma@sjsu.edu

**Course**: CMPE-272: Enterprise Software Platforms | SJSU Fall 2025

---

## Project Overview

### Key Features

- **Proactive Leak Detection**: AI agents monitor acoustic patterns and pressure anomalies to detect leaks before they become critical
- **Autonomous Isolation**: Automatic pipe isolation when leaks are detected
- **Energy Optimization**: Dynamic pump scheduling based on real-time pricing
- **Digital Twin**: Real-time network visualization with live updates
- **Multi-Agent System**: Coordinated AI agents for decision-making
- **Incident Management**: Track and resolve system events
- **Real-time Monitoring**: Live sensor data and network status

---

## Architecture

```
aware-water-agent/
├── backend/              # FastAPI backend
│   ├── main.py          # API endpoints
│   ├── requirements.txt # Python dependencies
│   ├── .env            # Backend configuration
│   └── README.md       # Backend documentation
│
├── frontend/            # React + TypeScript frontend
│   ├── src/            # Source code
│   │   ├── pages/     # Route pages
│   │   ├── components/ # Reusable components
│   │   ├── lib/       # Utilities and stores
│   │   └── hooks/     # Custom React hooks
│   ├── public/         # Static assets
│   ├── package.json    # Node dependencies
│   ├── .env           # Frontend configuration
│   └── README.md      # Frontend documentation
│
├── supabase/           # Supabase configuration
│   ├── config.toml    # Supabase settings
│   └── migrations/    # Database migrations
│
├── WIREFRAMES.md       # Complete UI wireframes
└── README.md          # This file
```

---

## Prerequisites

### Backend
- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip (Python package manager)

### Frontend
- Node.js 18 or higher
- npm (comes with Node.js)

---

## Quick Start

### Option 1: Automated Startup (Recommended)

The easiest way to start both backend and frontend:

```bash
# From the project root directory
./start-services.sh
```

This script will:
- Automatically kill any existing processes on ports 8000 and 5173
- Start the backend on http://localhost:8000
- Start the frontend on http://localhost:5173
- Handle environment variable configuration

To stop all services:

```bash
./stop-services.sh
```

### Option 2: Manual Startup

#### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd aware-water-agent
```

#### 2. Start the Backend

```bash
# Navigate to backend directory
cd backend

# Create a virtual environment (recommended)
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Start the server
uvicorn main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

The backend API will be available at:
- **API**: http://localhost:8000
- **API Docs (Swagger)**: http://localhost:8000/docs
- **API Docs (ReDoc)**: http://localhost:8000/redoc

### 3. Start the Frontend

Open a new terminal:

```bash
# Navigate to frontend directory
cd frontend

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

The frontend will be available at:
- **App**: http://localhost:5173

---

## Running Both Services

You need to run both backend and frontend simultaneously:

### Terminal 1 - Backend
```bash
cd backend
source venv/bin/activate  # If using virtual environment
uvicorn main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

### Terminal 2 - Frontend
```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

---

## API Endpoints

### Backend (FastAPI)

#### GET `/`
Health check endpoint
```json
{
  "status": "ok",
  "message": "AWARE Water Management System API"
}
```

#### GET `/sensors`
Get simulated sensor data for all pipes
```json
{
  "pipes": [
    {
      "pipe_id": "P-1",
      "pressure": 75.42,
      "acoustic": 0.35
    }
  ]
}
```

#### GET `/leaks`
Get pipes with detected leaks (pressure < 60 psi AND acoustic > 0.7)
```json
{
  "leaks": [
    {
      "pipe_id": "P-5",
      "pressure": 45.23,
      "acoustic": 0.85,
      "leak": true
    }
  ]
}
```

---

## Environment Variables

### Backend (`.env`)
```env
PORT=8000
HOST=0.0.0.0
```

### Frontend (`.env`)
```env
VITE_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
VITE_SUPABASE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=your_supabase_key
VITE_SUPABASE_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
```

**Note**: The frontend already has a `.env` file with Supabase credentials. Update these if you're using your own Supabase instance.

---

## Technology Stack

### Frontend
- **Framework**: React 18 with TypeScript
- **Build Tool**: Vite
- **Routing**: React Router v6
- **UI Components**: Shadcn/ui + Radix UI
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **State Management**: Zustand + TanStack Query
- **Charts**: Recharts
- **Maps**: Leaflet + React Leaflet
- **Forms**: React Hook Form + Zod
- **Backend**: Supabase (real-time database)

### Backend
- **Framework**: FastAPI
- **Server**: Uvicorn
- **Language**: Python 3.13+

### Database
- **Primary**: Supabase (PostgreSQL)
- **Real-time**: Supabase Realtime

---

## Features & Pages

### Landing Page (`/`)
- System overview
- Feature highlights
- Team information
- Call-to-action buttons

### Authentication (`/auth`)
- User sign-in
- Supabase authentication

### Dashboard (`/dashboard`)
- Key metrics (Non-Revenue Water, Active Incidents, Energy Cost, Network Uptime)
- Demand forecast chart
- Recent events feed
- AI agents status overview

### Network Twin (`/network`)
- Interactive map with live network visualization
- Real-time pipe isolation updates
- Network statistics
- Node and edge details

### Incidents (`/incidents`)
- System events and alerts
- Event timeline
- Severity badges
- Acknowledge and resolve actions

### AI Agents (`/agents`)
- Multi-agent system overview
- Agent status and confidence levels
- Last decisions and metrics
- Run simulation capabilities

### Energy Management (`/energy`)
- Today's savings and efficiency metrics
- Hourly energy pricing chart
- Optimized pump schedule
- Apply schedule actions

### Admin (`/admin`)
- User management
- System configuration
- Alert thresholds
- Agent settings

### Team (`/team`)
- Team member profiles
- Project information
- Technology stack

---

## Development

### Frontend

**Lint code:**
```bash
cd frontend
npm run lint
```

**Build for production:**
```bash
cd frontend
npm run build
```

**Preview production build:**
```bash
cd frontend
npm run preview
```

### Backend

**Run with auto-reload (development):**
```bash
cd backend
uvicorn main:app --reload
```

**Run in production:**
```bash
cd backend
uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

---

## Wireframes

Complete wireframes for all pages and components are available in [WIREFRAMES.md](./WIREFRAMES.md).

The wireframes document includes:
- All page layouts
- Component structures
- Data flow diagrams
- Responsive design breakpoints
- Accessibility guidelines

---

## Database Schema

The system uses Supabase with the following main tables:

- **events**: System incidents and alerts
- **agents**: AI agent configurations and status
- **nodes**: Water network nodes (junctions, tanks, reservoirs)
- **edges**: Water network pipes/connections
- **sensors**: Sensor readings (pressure, acoustic, flow)
- **energy_prices**: Hourly electricity pricing data

---

## Troubleshooting

### Backend Issues

**Problem**: `ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'fastapi'`
```bash
# Make sure you're in the backend directory and virtual environment is activated
cd backend
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**Problem**: Port 8000 already in use
```bash
# Use a different port
uvicorn main:app --reload --port 8001
# Update frontend API calls to use the new port
```

### Frontend Issues

**Problem**: `Cannot find module` errors
```bash
# Clear node_modules and reinstall
cd frontend
rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
npm install
```

**Problem**: Supabase connection errors
- Check that `.env` file exists in frontend directory
- Verify Supabase credentials are correct
- Ensure Supabase project is running

**Problem**: API calls failing
- Ensure backend is running on port 8000
- Check CORS settings in backend `main.py`
- Verify API endpoint URLs in frontend code

---

## Testing

### Test Backend Endpoints

```bash
# Health check
curl http://localhost:8000/

# Get sensor data
curl http://localhost:8000/sensors

# Get leak detections
curl http://localhost:8000/leaks
```

### Test Frontend
1. Open http://localhost:5173
2. Navigate through all pages
3. Check browser console for errors
4. Verify real-time updates work

---

## Deployment

### Backend Deployment

Recommended platforms:
- **Railway**: Easy Python app deployment
- **Heroku**: Classic PaaS
- **AWS EC2**: Full control
- **Google Cloud Run**: Serverless containers

### Frontend Deployment

Recommended platforms:
- **Vercel**: Optimized for Vite/React
- **Netlify**: Great for static sites
- **AWS Amplify**: Full-stack deployment
- **Lovable.dev**: Direct deployment (if using Lovable)

---

## Contributing

This project is part of CMPE-272 coursework at San José State University.

---

## License

Copyright © 2025 Team A.W.A.R.E. - San José State University

---

## Acknowledgments

- **Course**: CMPE-272: Enterprise Software Platforms
- **Institution**: San José State University
- **Instructor**: [Instructor Name]
- **Semester**: Fall 2025

---

## Contact

For questions or support, please contact:
- Raymond Li: raymond.li@sjsu.edu
- Sophia Atendido: sophia.atendido@sjsu.edu
- Jack Liang: jack.liang@sjsu.edu
- Dhruv Verma: dhruv.verma@sjsu.edu

---

## Project Links

- **Lovable Project**: https://lovable.dev/projects/ed28f069-f536-48ea-a759-833d10bce6bf
- **Repository**: [Your Git URL]
- **Documentation**: See [WIREFRAMES.md](./WIREFRAMES.md) for complete UI documentation

Commit message:

edited network map section and implemented AI agent, still buggy

README.md, after:

# A.W.A.R.E. Water Management System

**Agent for Water Autonomy, Resilience & Efficiency**

A proactive, self-healing AI agent for municipal water utilities that couples a digital twin with multi-agent decision systems to anticipate failures, orchestrate autonomous responses, and optimize energy use.

## Team

- **Raymond Li** - raymond.li@sjsu.edu
- **Sophia Atendido** - sophia.atendido@sjsu.edu
- **Jack Liang** - jack.liang@sjsu.edu
- **Dhruv Verma** - dhruv.verma@sjsu.edu

**Course**: CMPE-272: Enterprise Software Platforms | SJSU Fall 2025

---

## Project Overview

### Key Features

- **Proactive Leak Detection**: AI agents monitor acoustic patterns and pressure anomalies to detect leaks before they become critical
- **Autonomous Isolation**: Automatic pipe isolation when leaks are detected
- **Energy Optimization**: Dynamic pump scheduling based on real-time pricing
- **Digital Twin**: Real-time network visualization with live updates
- **Multi-Agent System**: Coordinated AI agents for decision-making
- **Incident Management**: Track and resolve system events
- **Real-time Monitoring**: Live sensor data and network status

---

## Architecture

```
aware-water-agent/
├── backend/              # FastAPI backend
│   ├── main.py          # API endpoints
│   ├── requirements.txt # Python dependencies
│   ├── .env            # Backend configuration
│   └── README.md       # Backend documentation
│
├── frontend/            # React + TypeScript frontend
│   ├── src/            # Source code
│   │   ├── pages/     # Route pages
│   │   ├── components/ # Reusable components
│   │   ├── lib/       # Utilities and stores
│   │   └── hooks/     # Custom React hooks
│   ├── public/         # Static assets
│   ├── package.json    # Node dependencies
│   ├── .env           # Frontend configuration
│   └── README.md      # Frontend documentation
│
├── supabase/           # Supabase configuration
│   ├── config.toml    # Supabase settings
│   └── migrations/    # Database migrations
│
├── WIREFRAMES.md       # Complete UI wireframes
└── README.md          # This file
```

---

## Prerequisites

### Backend
- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip (Python package manager)

### Frontend
- Node.js 18 or higher
- npm (comes with Node.js)

---

## Quick Start

### Option 1: Automated Startup (Recommended)

The easiest way to start both backend and frontend:

```bash
# From the project root directory
./start-services.sh
```

This script will:
- Automatically kill any existing processes on ports 8000 and 5173
- Start the backend on http://localhost:8000
- Start the frontend on http://localhost:5173
- Handle environment variable configuration

To stop all services:

```bash
./stop-services.sh
```

### Option 2: Manual Startup

#### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd aware-water-agent
```

#### 2. Start the Backend

```bash
# Navigate to backend directory
cd backend

# Create a virtual environment (recommended)
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Start the server
uvicorn main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

The backend API will be available at:
- **API**: http://localhost:8000
- **API Docs (Swagger)**: http://localhost:8000/docs
- **API Docs (ReDoc)**: http://localhost:8000/redoc

### 3. Start the Frontend

Open a new terminal:

```bash
# Navigate to frontend directory
cd frontend

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

The frontend will be available at:
- **App**: http://localhost:5173

---

## Running Both Services

You need to run both backend and frontend simultaneously:

### Terminal 1 - Backend
```bash
cd backend
source venv/bin/activate  # If using virtual environment
uvicorn main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

### Terminal 2 - Frontend
```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

---

## API Endpoints

### Backend (FastAPI)

#### GET `/`
Health check endpoint
```json
{
  "status": "ok",
  "message": "AWARE Water Management System API"
}
```

#### GET `/sensors`
Get simulated sensor data for all pipes
```json
{
  "pipes": [
    {
      "pipe_id": "P-1",
      "pressure": 75.42,
      "acoustic": 0.35
    }
  ]
}
```

#### GET `/leaks`
Get pipes with detected leaks (pressure < 60 psi AND acoustic > 0.7)
```json
{
  "leaks": [
    {
      "pipe_id": "P-5",
      "pressure": 45.23,
      "acoustic": 0.85,
      "leak": true
    }
  ]
}
```

---

## Environment Variables

### Backend (`.env`)
```env
PORT=8000
HOST=0.0.0.0
```

### Frontend (`.env`)
```env
VITE_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
VITE_SUPABASE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=your_supabase_key
VITE_SUPABASE_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
```

**Note**: The frontend already has a `.env` file with Supabase credentials. Update these if you're using your own Supabase instance.

---

## Technology Stack

### Frontend
- **Framework**: React 18 with TypeScript
- **Build Tool**: Vite
- **Routing**: React Router v6
- **UI Components**: Shadcn/ui + Radix UI
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **State Management**: Zustand + TanStack Query
- **Charts**: Recharts
- **Maps**: Leaflet (vanilla implementation for React 18 compatibility)
- **Forms**: React Hook Form + Zod
- **Backend**: Supabase (real-time database)

### Backend
- **Framework**: FastAPI
- **Server**: Uvicorn
- **Language**: Python 3.13+

### Database
- **Primary**: Supabase (PostgreSQL)
- **Real-time**: Supabase Realtime

---

## Features & Pages

### Landing Page (`/`)
- System overview
- Feature highlights
- Team information
- Call-to-action buttons

### Authentication (`/auth`)
- User sign-in
- Supabase authentication

### Dashboard (`/dashboard`)
- Key metrics (Non-Revenue Water, Active Incidents, Energy Cost, Network Uptime)
- Demand forecast chart
- Recent events feed
- AI agents status overview

### Network Twin (`/network`)
- Interactive map with live network visualization
- Real-time pipe isolation updates
- Network statistics
- Node and edge details

### Incidents (`/incidents`)
- System events and alerts
- Event timeline
- Severity badges
- Acknowledge and resolve actions

### AI Agents (`/agents`)
- Multi-agent system overview
- Agent status and confidence levels
- Last decisions and metrics
- Run simulation capabilities

### Energy Management (`/energy`)
- Today's savings and efficiency metrics
- Hourly energy pricing chart
- Optimized pump schedule
- Apply schedule actions

### Admin (`/admin`)
- User management
- System configuration
- Alert thresholds
- Agent settings

### Team (`/team`)
- Team member profiles
- Project information
- Technology stack

---

## Development

### Frontend

**Lint code:**
```bash
cd frontend
npm run lint
```

**Build for production:**
```bash
cd frontend
npm run build
```

**Preview production build:**
```bash
cd frontend
npm run preview
```

### Backend

**Run with auto-reload (development):**
```bash
cd backend
uvicorn main:app --reload
```

**Run in production:**
```bash
cd backend
uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

---

## Wireframes

Complete wireframes for all pages and components are available in [WIREFRAMES.md](./WIREFRAMES.md).

The wireframes document includes:
- All page layouts
- Component structures
- Data flow diagrams
- Responsive design breakpoints
- Accessibility guidelines

---

## Database Schema

The system uses Supabase with the following main tables:

- **events**: System incidents and alerts
- **agents**: AI agent configurations and status
- **nodes**: Water network nodes (junctions, tanks, reservoirs)
- **edges**: Water network pipes/connections
- **sensors**: Sensor readings (pressure, acoustic, flow)
- **energy_prices**: Hourly electricity pricing data

---

## Recent Updates

### Network Map Component (Latest)
The Network Twin page (`/network`) has been updated to use vanilla Leaflet instead of react-leaflet for improved React 18 compatibility. This change:
- Eliminates React Context consumer errors
- Provides better performance and stability
- Maintains all existing functionality (real-time updates, node/edge visualization, popups)
- Uses client-side only rendering to avoid SSR issues

The map component (`/components/NetworkMap.tsx`) dynamically loads Leaflet on the client side and manages the map lifecycle using React refs and useEffect hooks.

---

## Troubleshooting

### Backend Issues

**Problem**: `ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'fastapi'`
```bash
# Make sure you're in the backend directory and virtual environment is activated
cd backend
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**Problem**: Port 8000 already in use
```bash
# Use a different port
uvicorn main:app --reload --port 8001
# Update frontend API calls to use the new port
```

### Frontend Issues

**Problem**: `Cannot find module` errors
```bash
# Clear node_modules and reinstall
cd frontend
rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
npm install
```

**Problem**: Supabase connection errors
- Check that `.env` file exists in frontend directory
- Verify Supabase credentials are correct
- Ensure Supabase project is running

**Problem**: API calls failing
- Ensure backend is running on port 8000
- Check CORS settings in backend `main.py`
- Verify API endpoint URLs in frontend code

**Problem**: Map not loading or React errors on Network page
- The map uses vanilla Leaflet (not react-leaflet) for React 18 compatibility
- Ensure Leaflet CSS is properly imported
- Check browser console for any Leaflet-specific errors
- Verify that the map container has proper dimensions (height: 600px)

---

## Testing

### Test Backend Endpoints

```bash
# Health check
curl http://localhost:8000/

# Get sensor data
curl http://localhost:8000/sensors

# Get leak detections
curl http://localhost:8000/leaks
```

### Test Frontend
1. Open http://localhost:5173
2. Navigate through all pages
3. Check browser console for errors
4. Verify real-time updates work

---

## Deployment

### Backend Deployment

Recommended platforms:
- **Railway**: Easy Python app deployment
- **Heroku**: Classic PaaS
- **AWS EC2**: Full control
- **Google Cloud Run**: Serverless containers

### Frontend Deployment

Recommended platforms:
- **Vercel**: Optimized for Vite/React
- **Netlify**: Great for static sites
- **AWS Amplify**: Full-stack deployment
- **Lovable.dev**: Direct deployment (if using Lovable)

---

## Contributing

This project is part of CMPE-272 coursework at San José State University.

---

## License

Copyright © 2025 Team A.W.A.R.E. - San José State University

---

## Acknowledgments

- **Course**: CMPE-272: Enterprise Software Platforms
- **Institution**: San José State University
- **Instructor**: [Instructor Name]
- **Semester**: Fall 2025

---

## Contact

For questions or support, please contact:
- Raymond Li: raymond.li@sjsu.edu
- Sophia Atendido: sophia.atendido@sjsu.edu
- Jack Liang: jack.liang@sjsu.edu
- Dhruv Verma: dhruv.verma@sjsu.edu

---

## Project Links

- **Lovable Project**: https://lovable.dev/projects/ed28f069-f536-48ea-a759-833d10bce6bf
- **Repository**: [Your Git URL]
- **Documentation**: See [WIREFRAMES.md](./WIREFRAMES.md) for complete UI documentation
